# Programming with C (Part 02)
## Standard Input/Output
+ Standard I/O refers to a way a program interacts with the user and the computer's display or other output devices.
+ when a program is run, it can receive input through Standard input (e.g keyboard) and display output to you through Standard output (e.g screen).
+ these input and output streams are provided by the operating system.
+ Standard I/O library in C, `<stdio.h >`, provides functions (e.g `printf`, `scanf`) to read input from Standard input and write output to Standard output.
+ these functions simplify the process of interacting with the user and displaying information.

## Standard Input 
+ represents the source from which a program reads input.
+ from keyboards and other input devices.

### `getchar()`
+ used to read a single character from the standard input (keyboard) and return its corresponding ASCII value as an integer.
+ **synopsis** : `int getchar(void);`
+ If an error occurs or the end of the input stream is reached, getchar() returns the special value EOF (End-Of-File).

### `scanf()`
+ allows the program to prompt the user for input and then reads and stores the provided values.
+ **syntax** : `scanf(format_string, &arg1, &arg2, &arg3,...);`
+ `arg` : addresses of variables that will store the read input values.
+ `format_string` : tells `scanf` how the input is formatted.



### Standard Output
+ represents the destination where a program sends its output to.
+ to the computer's display or console.

### `putchar()`
+ used to write a single character to the standard output (usually the console or terminal).
+ synopsis: `int putchar(int character);`
+ function returns the written character as an unsigned char value, or EOF (typically defined as -1) if an error occurs.


### `printf()`
+ used to display information on the screen.
+ syntax : `printf (format_string , arg1, arg2, ...);`
+ `format_string` : tells `printf` how to display the arguments.
+ `arg` : are the variables to be printed.

## Format Specifiers
+ Format specifiers in C are special codes used in functions like `printf()` and `scanf()` to indicate the type of data being displayed or read.

### Examples of format specifiers
+ `%d`: Used for integers.
+ `%f`: Used for floating-point numbers.
+ `%c`: Used for characters.
+ `%s`: Used for strings.


*For Example*  
 
```c
    int num = 42;
    printf("The number is: %d", num);
```
 
+ `%d` tells `printf()` that the corresponding argument is an integer value.
+ `printf()` function replaces the `%d` code with the actual value of num and displays the result on the screen.

*output:* `The number is 42` .

 
## The `sizeof() operator`
+ used to find out how much memory is occupied by a particular data type or a variable in bytes.
+ **syntax** : `sizeof(expression)`
 
 
 
# C Compilation Process
## Preprocessor 
+ Accepts the source code file to be compiled (.c file)
+ Removes all comments from the file.
+ expands the file to add all content of any included header files
+ replaces macro names with value
+ sends resulting prepoccessed file to compiler.

### what is a macro
A macro is a predefined rule or shortcut that allows you to associate a name with a value or a code snippet. When the preprocessor encounters that name in your code, it automatically replaces it with the associated value or code before the actual compilation takes place.
For example: let's say you have a constant value that you use repeatedly in your code, such as the value of Pi. Instead of writing 3.14159 every time you need to use Pi, you can define a macro like this:

```c
#define PI 3.14159
```
Now, whenever you use the name `PI` in your code, the preprocessor will replace it with `3.14159` during the compilation process.

### Files involved
+ **Input file**: source code (.c file)
+ **Output file**: preprocessed file (.c file)
+ **command to access preprocessed file**: `gcc -E program.c`

 
## Compiler
+ accepts intermediate file
+ generate assembly code
+ sends resulting assembly code file to the assembler.

*what are mnemonics?*
 
## Assembler
+ accepts assembly code file
+ converts assembly code to machine 

language (binary) / object code
+ sends resulting object code file to the linker
 
## Linker
+ accepts object code file
+ combines all object codes into a single object file
+ link our code with library function
+ stores resulting executable file in directory.
 
### Types of linking
+ static
+ dynamic 

