
# Programming with C (Part 01)

## Basic Knowledge about C
+ C is a high level language.
+ C is a programming language of choice for Kernel Development. 
+ C is portable : use code on different platforms
+ In order to appreciate C, I must know and understand how the computer system works.
+ In C, I have to manage my own memory which will require an intimate knowledge of how a computer system works and how hardware is being interracted with.
+ Ideal for applications which require high performance and low and low memory

### what is kernel? 
+ refers to the central component of an operating system, that handles important tasks and makes sure everything runs smoothly.
+ keeps track of the memory, processor, storage, and other hardware components.
+ It decides who gets to use these resources and when, so that different programs and applications can run without causing conflicts.
+ also acts as a mediator between software and hardware.
+ It provides a way for software programs to communicate with the hardware devices like printers, keyboards, and disks.
+ It makes sure that the software can send instructions to the hardware and receive data from it.
+ It helps in starting and stopping programs, managing files and folders, and handling network connections.

## C Standardization 

Standardization is the process of creating a set of rules and guidelines for the C programming language to ensure that C programs will work the same way no matter where they are run or which compiler is used ( to ensure consistent behavior and compatibility across different systems and compilers.).* 

+ 'K n R' C
+ ANSI C (C89/C90) : Most portable and still widely used today. by default,  the GCC compiler will default to the ANSI C version if nothing is set.

+ C99 : Published in 1999
+ C11 : Published in 2011

## Problems which called for the need for Standardization
+ C programs written for one system might not work correctly on another.
+ code written in one version of the C language often failed to compile or behave correctly on a different version. among others.



## Hello World Program

```c
#include <stdio.h>

int main(void)
{
    printf("Hello World!\n");
    return 0;
}

```

+ `#include <stdio.h>` : includes a header file that defines input/output routines that our program will need or use.
+ `int main(void)` : 
+ `int` : main function will return an integer.
+ `main(void)` : main function does not take any arguments

+ when the program is compiled and run, main is where the runtime is going to start executing.
+ `printf("Hello World\n);` : prints to standard output. 
+ `\n` : adds a new line
+ `return 0` : returns an integer value 0 to indicate successful execution.

### why does my program need to return something?
+ the returning of a value serves as am indication to the operating system about the status of the program execution, while the return of the value other than what was specified indicates an error or some exceptional condition. 
+ C standard requires `main` function to return an integer, this `int main`

### How do I see what value my C program returned?

+ `echo $?` right after running the program.




# C Basics
## Variable names
### what are the rules to naming variables
+ must begin with a letter or an underscore (_)
+ can be followed by any combination of letters, digits or underscore 
+ cannot use reserved words

### state whether the following are valid or not valid C variable names and why?
+ `won@last` : invalid, because the @ symbol is not allowed in naming variables.
+ `_myLast_name` : valid, because it starts with an underscore and follows with combination of letters and underscore.
+ `go4it` : valid
+ `char` : invalid, because it is a reserved word in C.


## Data types
### char (character)
+ storage size: 1 byte

### int (integer)
+ storage size: 4 bytes

### float (floating points)
+ storage size: 4 bytes

### double 
+ storage size: 8 bytes
+ literals are assumed as doubles unless stated otherwise.
*Literals are like fixed values that you write directly into your code. They represent different types of information, like numbers or text. Instead of storing them in variables, you use them directly in your code.*
+ e.g `3.14f`, would have been taken as a 

double if not specified as a float with the `f`


## Modifiers 
+ keywords used to change or modify the behavior of variables and data types.
+ help specify how much space we want the variable occupy in memory.

### why use modifiers to change the normal space allocated to data types?
+ conserve memory, limit value ranges, ensure compatibility with external systems, improve performance, and make efficient use of storage resources.

### arrange these data types according to the rules of ANSI sizing.
+ int & log and short of int
+ long, double and float

## sizeof() operator
+ used to determine the size in bytes of a data type or an expression. 
+ it returns the number of bytes occupied by the operand.
+ syntax is: `sizeof(operand)`


