0x04. System engineering & DevOps/Bash/0x05. Processes and signals/README.md, before:

# 0x05. Processes and signals

This repository contains detailed notes on Processes and Signals, serving as a comprehensive resource for software engineering enthusiasts, students, and professionals.

## Table of Contents
+ [Resources](#resources)
+ [Learning Objectives](#learning-objectives)
+ [Notes](#Notes)
+ [Project](#project)
+ [Next Lesson](#next-lesson)


## Resources
**Read / Watch**
- [Linux PID](https://www.linfo.org/pid.html)
- [Linux Process](https://www.thegeekstuff.com/2012/03/linux-processes-environment/)
- [Linux signals](https://www.educative.io/answers/what-are-linux-signals)
- [Process management in linux](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/process-management-in-linux)

## Learning Objectives
At the end of this project, you are expected to be able to explain to anyone, without the help of Google:

### General
- What is a PID
- What is a process
- How to find a process’ PID
- How to kill a process
- What is a signal
- What are the 2 signals that cannot be ignored

## Notes
+ [Go through notes here](./notes.md)


## Project

## Next Lesson
[]()

Commit message:

added link to learning objectives

0x04. System engineering & DevOps/Bash/0x05. Processes and signals/README.md, after:

# 0x05. Processes and signals

This repository contains detailed notes on Processes and Signals, serving as a comprehensive resource for software engineering enthusiasts, students, and professionals.

## Table of Contents
+ [Resources](#resources)
+ [Learning Objectives](#learning-objectives)
+ [Notes](#Notes)
+ [Project](#project)
+ [Next Lesson](#next-lesson)


## Resources
**Read / Watch**
- [Linux PID](https://www.linfo.org/pid.html)
- [Linux Process](https://www.thegeekstuff.com/2012/03/linux-processes-environment/)
- [Linux signals](https://www.educative.io/answers/what-are-linux-signals)
- [Process management in linux](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/process-management-in-linux)

## Learning Objectives
Answers to the learning objectives can be found [here](./learning_objectives)  
At the end of this project, you are expected to be able to explain to anyone, without the help of Google:

### General
- What is a PID
- What is a process
- How to find a process’ PID
- How to kill a process
- What is a signal
- What are the 2 signals that cannot be ignored

## Notes
+ [Go through notes here](./notes.md)


## Project

## Next Lesson
[]()
