# Elements of C

## Keywords & Identifiers
### Keywords
+ reserved words in C that have predefined meanings and cannot be used as variable or function names.
+ When a keyword is used in a program, the compiler recognizes it and associates it with its predefined behavior.
+ **Examples of keywords** : auto, double, int, else, long, return, sizeof, among others.

### Identifiers
+ user-defined names used to identify variables, functions, and other elements in a C program.
+ created by programmers to give meaningful names to different parts of the program.
+ rules to creating an identifies is as same rules to creating a variable in C.

## Integral Types
+ data types used to store whole numbers (integers). 
+ come in different sizes
+ can be signed (able to represent positive and negative values) or unsigned (able to represent only non-negative values).

### Signed & unsigned types
+ signed types can represent both positive and negative values, using a bit to indicate the sign.  
Example.  
```c
    signed char temperature = -10;
```  
+ The variable `temperature` of type `signed char` stores the value -10. 
+ In binary, it is represented as 11110110, where the leftmost bit, `1` indicates a negative value and the remaining bits represent the magnitude of 10.
+ Unsigned types can only represent non-negative values and use all the bits to represent the magnitude of the value.
+ choice between signed and unsigned depends on the specific requirements of your program and the range of values you need to work with.  
*Example of unsignes*  
```c
    unsigned char count = 200;
```
+ The variable `count` of type `unsigned char` holds the value 200. 
+ As an unsigned type, all 8 bits represent the magnitude, without a sign bit, and the binary representation is 11001000.



### char
+ size: 1 byte
+ range: -128 to 127 (signed char)
+ range: 0 to 255 (unsigned char)  
E.g.  
```c
    char myChar = 'A';
```

### short
+ size: Typically 2 bytes.
+ range: -32,768 to 32,767 (signed short) 
+ range: 0 to 65,535 (unsigned short).  
Example:  
```c
    short myShort = 32767;
```

### int:
+ size: Typically 4 bytes.
+ range: -2,147,483,648 to 2,147,483,647 (signed int) 
+ range: 0 to 4,294,967,295 (unsigned int).
Example:  
```c
    int myInt = 2147483647;
```  

### long:
+ size: 4 bytes on 32-bit systems, 8 bytes on 64-bit systems.
+ range: -2,147,483,648 to 2,147,483,647 (signed long) 
+ range: 0 to 4,294,967,295 (unsigned long).
Example: 

### long long:
+ size: 8 bytes.
+ range: -9,223,372,036,854,775,808 to 9,223,372,036,854,775,807 (signed long long)
+ range: 0 to 18,446,744,073,709,551,615 (unsigned long long).
Example: 
```c
    long long myLongLong = 9223372036854775807;
```


## Questions & Answers
1. Does it mean, it I want to store a negative value in c, I have to always use a signed integral type? 
+ Yes.

2. But I have seen C declarations some places that declared variables with negative and positive values without signed integral type.
+ In C, the default integral types (such as `int`, `char`, `short`, `long`, `long long`) are all signed by **default**.

3. `char` stores characters, why is it storing a negative integer now? (with regards to the temperature variable earlier)
+ char serve multiple purposes
+ can be used to store character data (such as letters, symbols or digits) as well as small integer values.

4. so if I store a number in a char, it will be treated as a small integer value regardless of whether I signed it or not?
+ Yes.

5. so, If I store 65 in a char and print it out with the format specifier %c, what will be printed and why?
+ letter A will be printed.
+ and this is because the format specifier is telling the print function in what format the output should come as and `%c` is format specifier for character.
+ similarly, if the format specifier for printing was `%d`, the 65 will be printed out.
